Now, let's talk about the NIST functions and categories.
The NIST CSF functions are
high level directions on how to apply security throughout a program.
The five functions or steps are,
identify, protect, detect, respond, and recover.
I'll explain each at a high level so it's
useful for implementing security best practices.
Step 1 of the framework, identify valuable assets.
What do you have worth protecting?
It's like your crown jewels.
Step 2 in the framework is protect.
What are you going to do to defend those assets from threats?
Step 3 in the framework, detect.
It's knowing when something bad is happening.
That's known as a cybersecurity event.
Step 4 in the framework is respond.
What do you do when you detect a problem?
You want to make sure you're quick and efficient in your response to a cyber incident.
Step 5 in the framework is recovery.
Recovering when something bad happens, it's like an incident.
You want to make sure you can quickly get back to business.
So for example, with a bank,
you want to know your most valuable assets,
like people's money.
That's the identify.
What protections do you have in place,
whether they are physical or within IT?
Within IT, it would be like firewalls,
antivirus, and how to secure operating system.
Detect. You want to know when someone's trying to gain access to money that's not theirs,
whether it's a bank robber walking into the facility or
someone trying to gain access through your Internet connection.
Respond, it's like having that security guard.
Take action if a robber enters the building.
Doing the same thing within IT.
Then recovery, that means recovering from the incident.
Getting back to business for your bank as quickly as possible.
The next layer of the CSF core are categories,
which are a set of cybersecurity activities and outcomes,
organized into 23 different areas.
So it's what you need to do,
or prove you do for a cybersecurity program.
For example, the categories under protect include,
awareness training and your processes for protecting your systems,
such as how you remotely access work applications and files.
Each category has a unique identifier based on the function and category name.
For example, the awareness and training category under protect is identified as PR.AT.
This structure helps you quickly identify areas within the framework.
In the exercise, you'll provide examples for each of
the functions to help you understand how they work together.
Take some time to explore the NIST CSF because it's used throughout industry.